hi this is pressed a locker in this
video I'm going to explain the math
behind why you could multiply two
numbers between 11 and 19 in your head
in the previous video we said if you
wanted to do 13 times 12 you could do a
series of steps where you added and
multiplied different portions of the
numbers together to get to the answer of
156 so we're going to go through the
algebra and see why this is actually a
legitimate method a number between 11
and 19 can be written as 10 plus X where
X is a number between 1 and 9 so if
we're multiplying two of these numbers
together we have 10 plus X times 10 plus
y the first step of the process was to
take the entire number 10 plus X and add
it to the digit Y so we have 10 plus X
plus y to that result we added a digit
zero which is the same as multiplying by
10 the second step of the process was to
take the unit's digits of both numbers X
and Y and multiply them together so that
would give us X Y the final step was to
add these together so doing some algebra
the first step would give us a hundred
plus 10 times the quantity X plus y and
the second step in green gives us x
times y so this is the algebraic result
of our process and if you check the math
this is exactly what you get by
expanding the two terms 10 plus x times
10 plus y so in fact our three-step
process will give us the correct answer
I hope you like this video please
subscribe to my channel you can also
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
or
Twitter at press talker